in all cases by eight o'clock at night nine o'clock at night no ten o'clock because that's when Graham staff and Duncanville came in and said that they we won we heard that four precincts hadn't come in yet and we heard this from our county chairs who then sent people
We actually went and looked in Cleburne to the schools where the polls were and the people were still in the polling places.
In Cleburne it was really funny because there was only one phone
and it was in the principal's office, and it didn't have blinds and curtains, and they were on the phone a lot.
And those four precincts came in literally 24 hours, all of them together, all 24 hours to the hour after the polls closed, and we lost by 105 votes.
All right, so... Actually, we lost by 175 roughly at that time, and then when we did a recount, we lost only by 105.
And how many votes were involved?
85,000.
No, no, in those four precincts.
Oh, in those four precincts?
The only one I remember specifically was we lost a black precinct in Mahaya where everybody had one vote each of the six candidates and there was a lot of undecided.
We lost at 33 to zip.
That's the only one I remember.
And did you all have any important financial contributors, backers?
No.
Well, we had people that were important to us.
But you didn't have any major.
We had a little bit out of Fort Worth's oil deal that they came in right at the end.
We had some people here that gave actually a lot of money for what they probably could give in Brassus County.
But your total...
Expenditures were about what?
68,000.
I still have the records.
It's unbelievable.
I boxed about it because I figured one day Chet may be president, so they'll be working.
And this is 1978.
78.
The Democratic primary, but in those days the Republican.
That was it.
There was no Republican in the general.
Whoever won the primary won.
There are a lot of good things to say about Tiger, and Chet would never, ever say this, but I've always been kind of the Maverick, so I will.
And I like Mr. Teague.
I thought the world of him.
He's had an enormous impact, but he was so mad at Phil Graham, and he wanted in the worst way, I think he really wanted to stay on for another couple of terms and God be forced it in 76.
He wanted in the worst way
to get back at Graham.
And I can remember a week out, we got together, Chet and I were with he and Mr. Teague at a Marriott in Houston.
And it was the one down by the Astrodome.
Was he down there?
I think it was in Houston.
And Mr. Teague said, I'm gonna get involved.
And up until this point he said he wasn't gonna get involved.
And I got all the stuff on Graham, and it's all going to come out.
Even despite that, we were ahead and could have won that one.
And that was a pretty tough broadside to come in at the 11th hour.
Chet should have won that race.
Chet's a much better man, much better officeholder now.
because he said, you know, we did the recount, and I mean, it was clear.
I went to all four precincts when we did the big recount in there, plus all the other ones that we did, and we raised the money overnight to do the recount, because it was expensive.
And they were all paper ballots, and they'd start off in pencil and end up in pen, so it was really clear somebody was voting top of the ticket, top of the ballot.
Chet never has ever said anything about that, never will.
very few people would understand that he ate a lot of pride and could have been very, could have taken us to court, could have put it in the media, but he said, you know, I may want to run again in the future, and that's the kind of person Chet is, and bless his heart, he did the exact right thing, and he learned from his mentors.
Don't give me back on that campaign.
Coming back to the campus.
When you were a student here in the mid-70s, describe the A&M student body in general.
Where did they come from?
What were their attitudes?
What kind of families did they come from?
When we started, when we left, that was 77, September, or 71, rather, and I left in July.
Well, we left in August of 77, two different worlds.
Compare them.
Freshmen, agricultural, rural, heavy,
I mean, the Corps basically ran everything still then.
I mean, we block-boated, everybody was Corps.
Women came on campus in Kruger-Dunn my sophomore year.
the Corps changed dramatically, to our credit, to Rick Gray and Corps staff's credit, and Corps staff, and the Commandant's Office at that time.
We were smart, we let women in the Corps my senior year.
A lot of dissension.
My class, 74, was really mad.
A lot of dissension in my class, we used to have junior get-togethers by people on course staff and brigades and some of us stayed around out at it.
Stu Rayfield was working at a place out of town and it had a lake pond in it.
We'd go out there.
Smartest thing we did.
We didn't become a VMI.
We didn't become a Citadel.
Best thing that happened at A&M was that
Dr. Williams and the faculty leading at that time, you and all the other ones set to go.
We were going to be world class.
And women have contributed enormously to what's happened.
It's been neat to watch women take positions that historically have always been male, move through those fairly quickly and get some really bright people in.
And to watch this university grow from 14,000 our freshman year to I think we were saying it was like 33 or 36,000 or something like that by the time we left here.
You can see a sense of destiny starting to form among the student body.
We were can-do.
We were going to make things happen.
We were going to have an impact and we would not let any more Vietnams take place.
And that was kind of that spirit.
It's funny because most of us are here
49 and 50 now, and I don't think we've changed all that much.
All right, but now, also, but during this period, there were no protests?
No.
Organized protests?
No, no, no.
It was, I mean, it was at the height of Vietnam.
Corps was wrestling with, I mean, we had guys that had been in the class of 67 and 68 during Tet and afterwards and left as sophomores and juniors to go enlist in the Army and the Marines and then come back and go to school.
And some of them were in our outfits.
So we had a sense of what war was like.
in a very removed, abstract kind of way from living through what they saw.
But no, it was a very shielded place compared to Austin and any of the other places.
How, in general, how were those, as coeds come in large numbers, how were they treated on campus?
Initially, that first semester must have been horrific for some of them.
I mean, we were pretty, core was pretty childish in hindsight.
We made extra effort with the outfit banners that the freshmen would put up to be absolutely grotesque about women.
when they would walk by the quad, we would be absolutely at our worst.
Now they were in their one outfit then?
No, this was my sophomore year.
This was the first year on campus.
They were in one dorm of Krueger and half a dorm of Dunn.
Oh, so they're not in the Corps.
They didn't even in the Corps in my senior year.
So my sophomore year, we were all being belligerent to them and pretty bad.
After a while we figured out it was pretty nice to have women on campus and we can get dates.
So we started to change and they started to change and things happened.
And then they came in a senior year into the Corps and yes they were in one outfit at that time.
And we regressed.
There's 74 and 75, the two classes, the immediate past seniors in ours class.
probably could have done things a whole lot different.
And you saw it in weird ways that should never have happened.
Louie Goert and Meryl Mitchell had been heartthrobs, and everybody thought they were going to get married, and Meryl dumped Louie.
So we had this great out point my senior year, and I took Louie on a King's deal up and down the quad, and everybody signed this long deal of toilet paper to send to Meryl,
So there was a lot of that angst going on about women being on campus and what they were doing and they were changing A&M, but best thing that ever happened.
Now during that period, did the old relation with TWU pretty well?
Yeah, absolutely.
We went to One Pig Push our freshman year and that was it.
You didn't even think about TWU after that.
Unless it was really a last resort.
Did we still have at that point an Aggie sweetheart from TWU?
Yeah, all the way up and through, I think my senior year.
Maybe even into the year after that.
uh... still did a lot of try to do a lot of things with t w do you but it was totally different it wasn't women coming on buses to campus anymore it was women here in the women it goes back that's how kathy got there it goes back to the kinds of women we try to attract recruit
And we brought bright, articulate, challenging people.
And it'd be interesting.
I wonder how many of us in 74, 5, 6, 7, and 8 classes got married to Aggies.
I'll bet there's a lot of us out there.
And it'd be interesting to know that number.
It was a good time because you could see this place changing.
And, you know, one of the ads that we see on TV now about is during the athletic games is
The prophet's saying, I want my students to make a difference.
I don't know about today's students, but I can tell you that wasn't said, but it was sure demonstrated in actions when we were here.
And that's some of the most important lessons we all walked away with.
Were the big, the grand, old, formal dances still being held over in Cebisa?
They were and they weren't.
I think my freshman year there were still some big dances.
I mean, even the Marine Corps dance, I remember going in my junior year.
Boot dance, ring dance.
Those were still here, but they weren't that big a thing anymore.
Cottonball, was it gone?
No, Cottonball was still here and all those kind of things, but at least in the group that I ran around with, it wasn't all that big a deal.
Town Hall took on new meetings and a lot of the, the Town Hall, the MSC activities changed.
I mean, you could see from when we got in, I mean, most of the Corps got out of student government, except to vote, got out of the MSC.
my sophomore and junior year, we're just going to take our marbles and stay in the quad.
I mean, and it was pretty much that.
We had premier people get in there in leadership roles, and we opted out.
By the time I was president of the MSC, there were very few corps in there, which is a shame because I think they missed a lot to have an impact at that time.
The only time we heard from the corps in the student senate here in those years, there was a bunch of us that still had been in the corps
was on real key issues.
So the Corps was going through change at that time as well.
It was becoming much more introverted if it was like a human versus staying very actively involved.
And the positive thing was happening was all these new people that were coming to A&M with this can-do spirit were coming out of everywhere.
And we had 1,500 students active in the MSC during the year I was president.
And we put on a phenomenal amount of programs.
And it was because people thought that they could take a $14,000 budget and bring in top people.
It was neat stuff.
During your years, as far as you and your buddies were concerned, what were the highest, in terms of honor, prestige, what were the highest student leadership roles on the campus?
Two perspectives, one inside the Corps, one outside the Corps.
Inside the Corps, Corps commander, absolutely.
Actually it wasn't, it was the outfit
It was D-2 commander.
Then if you were smart, you got brigade, that was Louis, and then Corps.
Nobody in the, I mean, this was back in the days.
We had, we were having really bad arguments with student government, and we didn't think, because we'd lost the few leaders that we had in there.
And this was when Barb and the others were coming in in 74, and
It was changing and so we said we're gonna take our marbles and we're gonna stay in the quad to heck with you guys.
So core stuff inside the core, it was RV and a command slot somewhere.
Once you got out of it, the prime position, student body president and MSC president and core commander and to a large extent also RHA.
RHA filled a big void at that time for the off campus students.
What about Yale leaders and band commander?
We all had a different perspective of Yale leaders.
I may want to clean this one up.
We figured if you couldn't do anything else, you could become a Yale leader.
They were nice guys.
They were not seen as student leaders.
No, no, no.
They were block voted, elected by the Corps.
That was it.
Band?
No, not as much, because the band was just part of the advent.
And in our case, I mean, if we won an outstanding unit three of the four years I was there, why would we want to be in the band?
So, I mean, they were one of our competitors for awards.
And it was like that for most.
There were about ten units that really competed for the top three awards, for Hawkmouth, Yohan, and more.
And we all competed.
I mean, we kept up with what each other was doing.
Things that you see now...
in terms of how they keep up with grades and all that kind of stuff.
We were, the 10 units were doing that big time back then.
As far as you were aware, are you able to share any information about anything you knew about secret fraternities?
No.
You know, we talked a little bit about that last time.
I don't, I don't.
You weren't aware?
No, there was no that I ever came across, and there may have been,
There was always the core block vote on certain things, but that was about it.
But no, there was not a secret from anything.
And what was the student body general attitude about acceptance of folks from a different ethnic or race or religious background?
Did that matter?
We were pretty redneck back then still.
and a lot of it's still centered on the Corps, but even in the civilians, particularly in the Davis Gary and the dorms that were over here.
We had just tried to move off campus, and that's because we couldn't have enough dorms.
So the dorms were still pretty much a mirror of what was going on in the Quad.
And we had a, oh, man, one of the programs we put on was a Mideast debate, Arab and Israeli folks coming in.
And it was in 206 over there in the ballroom area, and I thought Wayne was just going to come unglued on it.
It was pretty divisive.
So we were pretty... But did you and the typical students...
Did it matter whether somebody else was Catholic or Protestant?
It didn't to me and the folks that I ran with, but in those kind of high-profile areas.
I mean, we had Middle East stuff going on back then.
You had the 73 stuff, and so you had those kind of activities.
No, I think those were in the years right before us.
Our years were actually pretty lame in respect.
Let's see, now there was no event of national or international significance that occurred that caused you to remember where you were when?
No, not like Kennedy.
Yeah, not like Kennedy or 9-1-1.
Let's see, was the battalion of any significance in those days?
Oh, yeah, they were adversarial.
Yeah, Jared Needham was, I mean, it's funny, I can't remember all these names.
Jared Needham was battalion editor of the year as president.
And he was a good writer the year before.
And he ripped us up one side and down the other on student service fees.
Some of them, he was right on target, actually.
And movies.
The Pink Flamingo stuff was a big brouhaha.
Bring in Rocky Horror Picture Show on campus and show it in Roto Theater was a big brouhaha.
Aggie Con and Cephas always stirred up stuff.
So they were always there.
He really went after them, the student government, student senate types though.
They were very much like the Dan Rather Press at that time, I mean.
They were going after folks and becoming good journalists.
Post Watergate.
The community, where did you and your buddies go to have a good time off campus?
Were there favorite night spots?
Yeah.
I'm filtering here.
Yeah, a lot of it, my outfit was different.
I mean, we were hard rock.
Everybody would go out to Lakeview.
And John, our senior year, would go out to Lakeview with a bunch of the B2 guys.
What kind of music were?
Country, primarily.
I mean, we were obnoxious my senior year, junior year.
Because on Friday nights after 5, you could put speakers in the window and rack it up.
And so we had hard rock going, and everybody else was...
blaring back at country, but we were the afferents in our alley.
At Lakeview, did you go out there to dance or to drink or both?
Both, that's what they went in.
My senior year, Kathy and I were pretty much of a twosome, and I was doing stuff with MSC types.
And we weren't, there was some drinking, because it was legal by then, but it wasn't a big deal.
There were a lot of, I mean, we were really lame.
We'd go play all day games on risk.
and stuff like that.
So we were really pretty lame compared to what it could have been.
Nothing like what my freshman year was like.
Where'd you go to the movies?
That's how Kathy got mad at me.
I never asked her out for a date for a half a semester because my VW was broken down.
So we'd walk up here to that movie theater by... You mean the campus?
No.
We actually, there were a couple times we went to the campus theater.
But no, we'd go up to over by over since they had the new movie theater open up by that time.
Oh, okay.
And so, you know, we were starting to get restaurants.
And the big thing for the SPO crowd, Student Programs Office, I mean, literally four nights a week, I wish I could do this too, we would leave there at 10 or 11, drive over to Sambo's,
and solve the problems of the world.
And after Student Senate, the whole back room would be filled with people from Student Senate and MSC in there.
And lots of patty melts or chili and cheese hamburgers followed by hot fudge sundaes that nobody can do anymore.
But it was fun because we would be there just about every night.
The waitresses knew who we were and it was fun.
How often did y'all go to downtown Bryan?
And whiskey bread?
And even as a cadet, we didn't even get to, Buddy Williams had this, he ended up moving into what was that old restaurant, the Blue Star.
We used to go to Youngblood's a lot.
But nothing in downtown Bryan.
Sometimes 3C, but there was a barbecue place up here up north that was actually much better, so we'd go there.
Whiskey Bridge?
What were the indulgences?
What were people smoking?
Nothing.
I mean, it was cigarettes, but the crew I ran around with, no, nothing else beyond that.
Did y'all even know the words?
Yeah, yeah.
And I knew some kids obviously that had, that smoked grass.
You could smell it in the civilian areas every once in a while.
A lot of Annie Greensprings and Boone Farm, way too much of that stuff.
But nothing, I never really saw anybody that had drug problems.
Did you all know heroin existed?
Yeah.
Oh, you did?
Okay.
In LSD.
I mean, we knew it, but it was not, mainly because nobody could afford it in the group I ran with.
It wasn't a big deal.
And you've got to remember, most of the group I ran with, even though I was pretty much
even in the YDs, was still fairly conservative folks.
And these were people that went to work for Calvin Guess.
They didn't go to work for somebody else.
And let's see, people weren't smoking cigars and pipes by then.
No, I started to smoke a pipe my year as MSC president, because I thought that looked cool.
And I did it off and on for a while, mainly because it would calm down my adrenaline.
But no, it was...
Scars really weren't in evidence at all.
Kathy started smoking cigarettes one semester, and she unfortunately hadn't been able to stop that, but outside of that, no.
A&M traditions.
Do you remember going to Silver Taps the first time?
Absolutely.
Every time.
Still the same.
I mean, I can still picture it.
It's one of the most moving things I've ever been around.
Why?
Somebody would care about somebody they hadn't met before with that degree.
The first time, we thought it was kind of funny, everybody would not only turn off lights, but when we came back, if you had to study, it was a study lamp, and you put towels over the window, or covers over the window, and towels over the door, and you didn't say a word.
We had very few, my freshman year, they increasingly got more and more, because we had more students.
But for somebody to spend thoughtful reflection time thinking about
a part of a group that they've never even met by and large before, and taps being played from the top of the academic building, and the RV slid, I mean it's just, it's something that's always with you.
And I don't think I missed one during my years here.
Did you ever know of anybody attempting any kind of prank or joke or anything else during?
lame jokes or easy jokes, but I mean, nothing real serious.
I mean, the worst that I can remember on campus was the bra over at academic Louiswood.
No, no, but I mean as a part of TAPS.
Oh, TAPS, no.
No, that's what I mean.
No, no, no.
The only, and we tried to get up, it was funny, we tried to get up in, we actually did get up in the old pigeon area of the academic building just to see what that was like, but no.
I don't know, yeah, I'd be surprised.
I never heard of any.
Yeah, the only thing that was really, and it goes back to your earlier thing, there was a beginning sense that there were gay accusers back then.
There was one guy in particular that was class of 74 in the band that was, whether he was or not, I think he probably was, but there was some of that starting and you don't go to the academic building at night.
those kind of things.
But that's really the only thing that was just different.
I mean, we were pretty sheltered here.
Uh-huh.
Mustard.
Do you remember going while you were a student?
Absolutely.
Where was it?
It was in Johnny Raleigh the years that I was there.
And, uh, uh, you know, one of the great things about A&M is we're very good about passing core values down.
Taps and mustard
And even to a large extent, bonfire are part of those values that you pass down.
But particularly taps and mustard, that's what sets us apart.
I mean, who else gets together on one day a year to remember those that have gone before them?
I mean, it's very unusual.
Do you remember when you bought your ring?
Yeah, as soon as I could.
How much did it cost?
I remember.
I've seen your boots cost $350.
It was like a hundred dollars, wasn't that much.
It may have been more.
And you still have the same ring.
You bet.
And it's been lost, and somebody, bless their heart, found it and turned it in to the Dallas police, and I got it back.
at Bader Hospital, we moved into Truett Hospital to put some admin offices in there in old patient rooms.
So I had my wedding band and my Aggie had a bad habit because it kept quite filled with it.
So I would take it off and put it on my wedding band.
Somebody came in and stole it because it was on an unsecured floor.
It got sold to a pawn shop and I got it back through the DVD that way.
How good, how good.
Yeah, you know, wedding band back and I got it.
Any other Aggie stories, Aggie ring stories?
Have you been somewhere where some on the other side of the world?
The big thing back when we were here, and I really noticed it at,
Actually, I noticed it most of the first 10 years afterwards, not so much since then.
You see an Aggie with a ring, you always introduce yourself.
I mean, it's just like, I mean, we did it at Astro, it was just a habit, and still do it.
There's always that instant bond.
We were in Blockbuster a couple of weeks ago, and there was a young Agg, or she's only a couple years behind us, with the lady in there.
And so, yeah, you always do it.
It's a good bond.
How did you feel when you put on that ring and those boots the first time?
Back to being king of the world.
The boots, because you knew you'd earned them.
We got boot privileges to walk outside of our room and only down the hall at our outfit barbecue in November, my junior year, and to put them on
uh to get them off but to put them on you you just fell totally when did you buy your boots then uh we ordered um uh i ordered mine i think at the end of my freshman year you had to you had to get them in line and then we hadn't paid for them so we did you know we paid half of it at holix yes yeah where are yours now in my closet need to be shining but they're still there
When you went through final review as a junior, what was it like?
Describe that day.
I was going through a lot of emotions then, mainly because there were only going to be three of us as seniors in the outfit.
Louis was gonna be brigade commander, Bill Chancey was on his staff, and Warren had gone to core staff, and so there was just John Don and I. We'd been through a year where it was up to us as seniors to see if we could win more for a fourth time, which would have been unheard of.
But we were gonna go after it, so it was very emotional.
And Kathy and I were getting real serious at that stage of the game, so I was already starting to
See, Kathy in high school wore a black armband too, and she's not a big anti-war, but she was very much against Vietnam and the military.
And so she and I were already starting, I was moving outside the outfit, and so there was a lot of emotions in that one.
What was more important was the next one, because we got married the day after Final Review.
Your junior year?
My senior year.
Your senior year.
I had a boot wedding, and John and Don and I had totally split by then.
So I had MSC guys in my wedding party, and I didn't have John and Don, the CEO and XO, my outfit in there.
I even went to the unheard of length of asking the four or three
Actually, Ken Davis was our fraud.
Ken and Louie Gohmert, Bill Chancey, and Warren, who were all staff rats, to be in the wedding party.
And it was very obvious in there that there was, and we had to deal over in the MSC, and of course had the MSC crowd there.
So it was really interesting, but we had to get, we had to reserve it.
We got married in the afternoon, Sunday afternoon at Mother's Day on May 11th.
We had to reserve that 14 months out.
And so when we thought we might get married, we knew where we wanted to get married.
We went immediately.
I mean, we were just talking about it as we walked across campus over by the academic.
We went straight over and found out who we needed to get on and actually signed up.
And your marriage was held where?
At the chapel?
I'll face chapel, and then we did the reception in the MSC.
And that's 1970?
75.
Five, okay.
27 years ago.
Commencement that year.
Well, see, I was a fifth-year senior, so I actually graduated with my wife, which she takes great pride in saying, see, you're really in 76 anyway.
So she and I graduated together.
I mean, I went first with Jay and then Kay.
And so we walked across the stage, and Jack was up there.
And it was a hoot because, I mean, it was pure fun walking across the stage to get the degree.
And he was chiding both of us.
And every hand shaking?
Yeah.
He made a point of that.
Did anybody leave early?
No.
Not that I remember.
Not in that era?
No.
Do you remember who the speaker was?
Almost nobody does.
No, I remember sitting in the audience, because Murray graduated then too, and it was already where we're going to go from here type stuff.
I mean, it was fun stuff, but I don't remember who the speaker was.
Okay, as you graduated,
how well did you feel A&M had prepared you for your future?
Remember where I came from.
Remember when we started this interview.
You know, I haven't told many people about what my GPs were like.
I felt rock solid.
I thought I could do anything.
And I mean, you think about it, Haskell, we didn't have a big career set up.
We weren't recruited by somebody in a big corporate world.
uh chet was going to pay 300 a month and we figured if that didn't work we'd find something else but we were both tenacious we both figured we could make our way and and we had all the skills that we needed